hey this is fresh to Walker reminding
you to mind your decisions today MIT
ranks as one of the top universities in
the world 150 years ago this problem
appeared on its entrance exam reduce the
following fraction to its lowest terms
the numerator is X to the power of 6
plus a squared X cubed Y and the
denominator is X to the power of 6 minus
a to the fourth Y squared pause the
video if you'd like to give it a try and
when you're ready keep watching to learn
how to solve this problem
[Music]
to solve this problem it helps to know
the difference of squares formula this
states that a squared minus B squared is
equal to the product of a plus B and a
minus B but if you didn't know this
formula how would you derive it let's go
through a geometric explanation consider
one square with an area of a squared and
a smaller square with an area of B
squared let's subtract the area of the
smaller Square from the larger square
the area that remains is a squared minus
B squared but we can also solve for the
area in terms of rectangles consider
this rectangle which has one side of B
and another side of a minus B we also
have this rectangle which has one side
of a and another side of a minus B both
of these rectangles have a side length
of a minus B so why don't we join these
two rectangles along this side when we
do that we end up with one long
rectangle one side is a minus B and the
other side will be a plus B the area of
this rectangle is the product of these
lengths and that's the difference of
squares formula so let's use it to solve
this problem let's focus on the
denominator notice it's actually a
difference of squares it's the
difference of X cubed being squared and
a squared Y being squared we then use
the difference of squares formula on
these terms to get the following
we now simplify the numerator notice
that X cubed is a common factor to both
terms when we factor this we get the
following we now take the numerator over
the denominator and both have the term X
to the power of 3 plus a squared Y so
these will cancel out and we're left
with the answer of x cubed all
over X cubed minus a squared Y it's a
neat little problem and it's fun to know
that problems we solve in math class
today we're still important problems a
hundred and fifty years ago thanks for
watching and for making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
YouTube thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]